[CHILDREN LAUGHING]
NARRATOR: WHILE THEIR MAY BE
DISAGREEMENTS ABOUT THE IMPACT
OF DIFFERENT FAMILY FORMS ON
CHILDREN, THERE IS WIDESPREAD
AGREEMENT AMONG MOST EXPERTS
THAT FAMILIES CONTINUE TO PLAY
A CRITICAL ROLE IN THE LIVES
OF THEIR MEMBERS.
AND THERE'S SOME COMPELLING
EVIDENCE THAT FAMILIES
CONTINUE TO LOVE THEIR CHILDREN
PRETTY WELL AND
INVEST IN THEM AS
BEST THEY CAN.
AND CHILDREN AREN'T GOING
TO GET THAT AT SCHOOL.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET
THAT FROM TEACHERS.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO
GET IT AT WORK.
FAMILIES DO THAT DAY
IN AND DAY OUT
INTIMATE KIND OF STUFF.
I WOULD SAY THAT FAMILIES ARE
DOING BETTER THAN THE MEDIA
MIGHT PORTRAY, GIVEN THE BROAD
DIVERSITY A FAMILY FORMS AND
ALL OF THE ECONOMIC AND
SOCIAL CHANGES OF
THE LAST TWO DECADES.
THERE'S A POPULAR MYTH THAT THE
AMERICAN FAMILY IS FALLING
APART, IT'S IN DECLINE, IT'S
A VANISHED SPECIES.
AND ACTUALLY I THINK THE
FAMILY'S HERE TO STAY,
ALTHOUGH IT'S TRANSFORMING
ITSELF IN MANY WAYS THAT FIT
THE CHALLENGES OF OUR TIMES.
WHEN PEOPLE TALK ABOUT WHETHER
THE FAMILY IS IN DECLINE, I
THINK OFTEN THEY'RE THINKING
ABOUT IT IN TERMS OF THE
FUNCTIONS THAT THE FAMILY
PERHAPS ONCE SERVED NO LONGER
BEING MET BY THE FAMILY UNIT.
AND SO ONE EXAMPLE OF THAT WOULD
CERTAINLY BE CARE OF
YOUNG CHILDREN THAT WOULD BE
INCREASINGLY TAKING PLACE
OUTSIDE OF THE FAMILY NOW, AS
WOMEN ARE NO LONGER STAYING AT
HOME IN THE SAME NUMBERS.
SOME HAVE ARGUED THAT THE
FAMILY HAS BECOME A BIT
OBSOLETE IN THE EYES
OF CHILDREN.
THAT CHILDREN LOOK AT PARENT
AS A BIT OLD FASHIONED AND
START LOOKING TO OTHER MEDIA AND
OTHER MODELS FOR GUIDANCE.
AND UNFORTUNATELY, BECAUSE
THERE'S LESS PARENT-CHILD
INTERACTIONS WITH THE ONE
WORKING AND CHILDREN INVOLVED
IN SO MANY RECREATIONAL
ACTIVITIES, THAT PROBABLY HAS
A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE WELL
BEING OF CHILDREN AND PROBABLY
AFFECTS THEM THROUGHOUT
THEIR LIVES.
THE NEED OF CHILDREN TO HAVE
PARENTS THERE MONITORING AND
ENGAGING THEM HAS
NOT GONE AWAY.
IT'S JUST THAT PARENTS HAVE
LESS TIME AND ENERGY TO DO
WHAT THEY'VE TRADITIONALLY
DONE.
MOST CHILDREN NOW RECEIVE
THEIR EDUCATION
OUTSIDE OF THE FAMILY.
CARE FOR THE ELDERLY IS
INCREASINGLY HAPPENING OUTSIDE
THE FAMILY.
SO THE FAMILY, IN
THAT SENSE, HAS
LOST MANY OF ITS FUNCTIONS.
BUT FOR MANY PEOPLE, IT STILL
OCCUPIES A CENTRAL ROLE IN
THEIR LIVES.
FAMILIES ARE ALWAYS CHANGING.
THERE ARE MANY INDICATORS THAT
SHOW THAT FAMILIES ARE NO
WORSE OFF, THAT PEOPLE SPEND NO
LESS TIME WITH THEIR KIDS
THAN THEY USED TO.
I THINK WHAT WE HAVE IS AN
EVOLVING FAMILY SYSTEM THAT
MEETS THE DEMANDS OF PEOPLE.
THERE SEEMS TO BE A LACK OF
FIT BETWEEN SOME OF OUR
NOSTALGIC IDEALS AND
THE PRACTICES OF
EVERYDAY FAMILY LIFE.
BUT BY AND LARGE, WE'RE DOING
THE SAME KIND OF CHANGING THAT
FAMILIES HAVE ALWAYS DONE.
THOSE CHANGES GENERALLY REFLECT
SIMILAR SHIFTS TAKING
PLACE IN SOCIETY OVERALL.
FAMILIES ARE ALWAYS RELATED TO
THE ECONOMY, THE POLITICS, THE
CULTURE OF THE SOCIETY.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, IF A SOCIETY
IS PREDICATED ON A
CERTAIN KIND OF SUBSISTENCE
PRACTICE, THAT'S GOING TO
SHAPE WHAT FAMILIES ARE LIKE.
IN HERDING SOCIETIES, YOUNG
PEOPLE GO OUT WHEN THEY'RE 10
OR 12 YEARS OLD, AND THEY HANG
OUT WITH THE SHEEP OR THE
GOATS OR WHATEVER
THEY'RE HERDING.
THAT PRODUCES A KIND OF A
LOOSE BOND BETWEEN THE
PREADOLESCENTS AND
THEIR PARENTS.
IN INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES,
WE TEND TO KEEP
KIDS IN SCHOOL LONGER.
AND THEN COLLEGE IS THAT POINT
WHERE THEY MIGHT BREAK, OR
AFTER COLLEGE, DEPENDING
ON WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
IN AGRARIAN SOCIETIES, WE PUT
PEOPLE TO WORK AND HAVE LOTS
OF KIDS AND STRUCTURE LARGE
FAMILIES AND PUT THEM ALL
TOGETHER IN ONE ROOM.
THE MAIN POINT IS THE
FAMILIES ARE NOT
SEPARATE FROM THE SOCIETY.
FAMILIES AND THE ECONOMY
AND THE POLITY ARE
ALL WRAPPED UP TOGETHER.
NARRATOR: JUST AS MANY SOCIETIES
HAVE UNDERGONE
TREMENDOUS CHANGE OVER THE PAST
TWO CENTURIES, SO, TOO,
HAS THE FAMILY.
AND GET THE FUNDAMENTAL ESSENCE
OF THIS VENERABLE
INSTITUTION SOMEHOW ENDURES.
I THINK THE FAMILY IS JUST
FUNDAMENTAL TO THE SURVIVAL OF
THE SPECIES.
WE'VE GOT TO HAVE SOME STABLE
ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH TO RAISE
A VULNERABLE NEWBORN AND PROTECT
THEM BIOLOGICALLY AND
TO RAISE THEM SOCIOLOGICALLY.
SO I DON'T THINK THE FAMILY
WILL CHANGE VERY MUCH.
I THINK WE'VE PROBABLY REACHED
THE PEAK OF DIVORCE RATES.
I THINK THEY'LL PROBABLY LEVEL
OUT, MAYBE EVEN CONTINUE TO GO
DOWN BECAUSE I THINK AS THE
NORMS OF FAMILY STRUCTURE
CHANGE, MEN AND WOMEN
WILL BE MORE EQUAL.
AND SO THAT BIG SOURCE OF
TENSION THAT'S ALWAYS EXISTED
IN THE FAMILY WILL BE MITIGATED
DRAMATICALLY.
WOMEN'S CONTINUED PARTICIPATION
IN THE LABOR
MARKET IS UNLIKELY TO UNDERMINE
MARRIAGE TO THE
EXTENT THAT MY OWN RESEARCH
AND THE RESEARCH OF OTHERS
SUGGESTS THAT, IN FACT, HAVING
A STABLE JOB, GOOD EARNINGS
ACTUALLY ARE ASSOCIATED WITH
AN INCREASED LIKELIHOOD OF
MARRIAGE, NOT A REDUCTION
IN MARRIAGE.
AND I THINK ONE OF THINGS THAT
PEOPLE HAD BEEN CONCERNED
ABOUT WAS THAT THESE
IMPROVEMENTS IN WOMEN STANDING
THE LABOR MARKET WERE SOMEHOW
A THREAT TO THE FAMILY.
AND I THINK THE EVIDENCE FOR
THAT IS PRETTY WEAK.
IF ANYTHING, I THINK IT GOES THE
OTHER WAY, THAT PROBABLY
THE BEST PREDICTOR OF
FAMILY STABILITY IS
THIS ECONOMIC STABILITY.
AND PEOPLE, WHEN THEY DO GET
DIVORCED OR WANT TO GET
REMARRIED AND HAVE CHILDREN
AGAIN, THAT SEEMS TO BE THE
TREND, I DON'T THINK THAT'S
GOING TO CHANGE.
BECAUSE THESE ARE FUNDAMENTAL
TO OUR SPECIES.
WE DIDN'T SURVIVE AS A SPECIES
WITHOUT THE FAMILY.
THE FAMILY HAD TO BE INVENTED
BY HUMANS TO ASSURE THE
REPRODUCTION OF SPECIES.
SO IT'S PROBABLY GOT SOME
BIOLOGICAL BASIS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE WIPED AWAY
BY CHANGING THE SOCIAL
AND CULTURAL CONDITIONS.
OUR FAMILY IS INCREDIBLY
DIVERSE, YOU KNOW, IN TERMS OF
CULTURE, IN TERMS OF
GENDER IDENTITY, IN
TERMS OF AGE AND REGION.
LUNA HAS SIX GRANDMOTHERS
(LAUGHS) AND THREE
GRANDFATHERS FROM BLOOD FAMILY,
FROM ADOPTIVE FAMILY,
FROM OUR DONOR'S MOTHER
AND FATHER ARE
INVOLVED IN THE FAMILY.
SO WE HAVE REALLY BOTH
EXPERIENCED THE RICHNESS OF
OUR BIOLOGICAL FAMILIES AND
REALLY CALLED THEM IN AND
WELCOMED THEM INTO OUR FAMILY.
AT THE SAME TIME AS WE HAVE AN
INCREDIBLY LOVING, CONNECTED,
COMMITTED, SUPPORTIVE GROUP
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE NOT
BIOLOGICALLY CONNECTED THAT WE
CONSIDER FAMILY AND THAT ARE
DOING CHILD CARE, AND THAT WERE
PART OF OUR BIRTH, AND
THAT HAVE, YOU KNOW, NURTURED
US AND KEPT US
ALIVE IN A LOT OF WAYS.
AND, YOU KNOW, I THINK WE'RE IN
A REALLY INCREDIBLE TIME IN
HISTORY, IN TERMS OF FAMILY,
BECAUSE THE DEFINITION OF
FAMILY IS SHIFTING VERY,
VERY PROFOUNDLY.
AND, YOU KNOW, THE MOM, DAD, TWO
KIDS, DOG, WHATEVER IS A
TINY MINORITY OF REALLY
WHAT FAMILIES ARE.
WE ARE A FAMILY JUST LIKE
EVERY-- LIKE OUR MOTHERS AND
FATHERS WERE FAMILIES.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE FAMILIES LIKE
OUR NEIGHBORS ARE FAMILIES.
AND WE LOVE EACH OTHER, WE CARE
FOR EACH OTHER, WE GO
THROUGH MAJOR SICKNESS AND
MAJOR ISSUES IN HEALTH.
AND WE DO ALL THE THINGS
THAT MARRIED PEOPLE DO.
AND, YOU KNOW, FOR US,
WE'RE VERY NORMAL.
WE ARE A FAMILY.
[MUSIC]